:orphan:

VcfTools
========

*1 contributor · 1 version*

NAME
vcftools v0.1.16 − Utilities for the variant call format (VCF) and binary variant call format (BCF)

SYNOPSIS
vcftools [ --vcf FILE | --gzvcf FILE | --bcf FILE] [ --out OUTPUT PREFIX ] [ FILTERING OPTIONS ] [ OUTPUT OPTIONS ]

DESCRIPTION
vcftools is a suite of functions for use on genetic variation data in the form of VCF and BCF files. The tools provided will be used mainly to summarize data, run calculations on data, filter out data, and convert data into other useful file formats.


Quickstart
-----------

    .. code-block:: python

       from janis_bioinformatics.tools.vcftools.vcftools.versions import VcfToolsvcftools_0_1_16

       wf = WorkflowBuilder("myworkflow")

       wf.step(
           "vcftools_step",
           VcfToolsvcftools_0_1_16(
               vcf=None,
           )
       )
       wf.output("out", source=vcftools_step.out)
    

*OR*

1. `Install Janis </tutorials/tutorial0.html>`_

2. Ensure Janis is configured to work with Docker or Singularity.

3. Ensure all reference files are available:

.. note:: 

   More information about these inputs are available `below <#additional-configuration-inputs>`_.



4. Generate user input files for VcfTools:

.. code-block:: bash

   # user inputs
   janis inputs VcfTools > inputs.yaml



**inputs.yaml**

.. code-block:: yaml

       vcf: vcf.vcf




5. Run VcfTools with:

.. code-block:: bash

   janis run [...run options] \
       --inputs inputs.yaml \
       VcfTools





Information
------------


:ID: ``VcfTools``
:URL: `https://vcftools.github.io/man_latest.html <https://vcftools.github.io/man_latest.html>`_
:Versions: 0.1.16
:Container: biocontainers/vcftools:v0.1.16-1-deb_cv1
:Authors: Jiaan Yu
:Citations: None
:Created: 2020-05-22
:Updated: 2020-05-22



Outputs
-----------

======  ======  ===============
name    type    documentation
======  ======  ===============
out     VCF
======  ======  ===============



Additional configuration (inputs)
---------------------------------

==================  ==================  =====================  ==========  ==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
name                type                prefix                   position  documentation
==================  ==================  =====================  ==========  ==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
vcf                 VCF                 --vcf                              This option defines the VCF file to be processed. VCFtools expects files in VCF format v4.0, v4.1 or v4.2. The latter two are supported  with  some  small limitations. If the user provides a dash character '-' as a file name, the program expects a VCF file to be piped in through standard in.
outputFilename      Optional<Filename>  --out                              <output_prefix>. This option defines the output filename prefix for all files generated by vcftools. For example, if <prefix> is set to output_filename, then all output files will be of the form output_filename.*** . If this option is omitted, all output files will have the prefix "out." in the current working directory.
removeFileteredAll  Optional<Boolean>   --remove-filtered-all           1  Removes all sites with a FILTER flag other than PASS.
recode              Optional<Boolean>   --recode                        1
recodeINFOAll       Optional<Boolean>   --recode-INFO-all               1  These options can be used with the above recode options to define an INFO key name to keep in the output  file.  This  option can be used multiple times to keep more of the INFO fields. The second option is used to keep all INFO values in the original file.
==================  ==================  =====================  ==========  ==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
