:orphan:

Arriba
======

``Arriba`` · *1 contributor · 2 versions*


Arriba gene fusion detector
--------------------------- 
Version: 1.2.0 
Arriba is a fast tool to search for aberrant transcripts such as gene fusions.  
It is based on chimeric alignments found by the STAR RNA-Seq aligner. 

Arriba is a command-line tool for the detection of gene fusions from RNA-Seq data. It was developed for the use in a 
clinical research setting. Therefore, short runtimes and high sensitivity were important design criteria. It is based 
on the ultrafast STAR aligner and the post-alignment runtime is typically just ~2 minutes. In contrast to many other 
fusion detection tools which build on STAR, Arriba does not require to reduce the alignIntronMax parameter of STAR 
to detect fusions arising from focal deletions.

Apart from gene fusions, Arriba can detect other structural rearrangements with potential clinical relevance, such 
as exon duplications or truncations of genes (i.e., breakpoints in introns and intergenic regions).



Quickstart
-----------

    .. code-block:: python

       from janis_bioinformatics.tools.suhrig.arriba.versions import Arriba_1_2_0

       wf = WorkflowBuilder("myworkflow")

       wf.step(
           "arriba_step",
           Arriba_1_2_0(
               aligned_inp=None,
           )
       )
       wf.output("out", source=arriba_step.out)
       wf.output("out_discarded", source=arriba_step.out_discarded)
    

*OR*

1. `Install Janis </tutorials/tutorial0.html>`_

2. Ensure Janis is configured to work with Docker or Singularity.

3. Ensure all reference files are available:

.. note:: 

   More information about these inputs are available `below <#additional-configuration-inputs>`_.



4. Generate user input files for Arriba:

.. code-block:: bash

   # user inputs
   janis inputs Arriba > inputs.yaml



**inputs.yaml**

.. code-block:: yaml

       aligned_inp: aligned_inp.bam




5. Run Arriba with:

.. code-block:: bash

   janis run [...run options] \
       --inputs inputs.yaml \
       Arriba





Information
------------

:ID: ``Arriba``
:URL: *No URL to the documentation was provided*
:Versions: 1.2.0, 1.1.0
:Container: quay.io/biocontainers/arriba:1.2.0--hd2e4403_2
:Authors: Michael Franklin
:Citations: None
:Created: 2020-09-02
:Updated: 2020-09-02


Outputs
-----------

=============  ======  ===============
name           type    documentation
=============  ======  ===============
out            tsv
out_discarded  tsv
=============  ======  ===============


Additional configuration (inputs)
---------------------------------

===============================  =======================  ========  ==========  ============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
name                             type                     prefix    position    documentation
===============================  =======================  ========  ==========  ============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
aligned_inp                      BAM                      -x                    File in SAM/BAM/CRAM format with main alignments as generated by STAR (Aligned.out.sam). Arriba extracts candidate reads from this file. This is sometimes /dev/stdin
inp_chimeric                     Optional<BAM>            -c                    File in SAM/BAM/CRAM format with chimeric alignments as generated by STAR (Chimeric.out.sam). This parameter is only required, if STAR was run with the parameter '--chimOutType SeparateSAMold'. When STAR was run with the parameter '--chimOutType WithinBAM', it suffices to pass the parameter -x to Arriba and -c can be omitted.
gtf_file                         Optional<File>           -g                    GTF file with gene annotation. The file may be gzip-compressed.
gtf_features                     Optional<csv>            -G                    Comma-/space-separated list of names of GTF features. Default: gene_name=gene_name|gene_id gene_id=gene_id transcript_id=transcript_id feature_exon=exon feature_CDS=CDS
reference                        Optional<Fasta>          -a                    FastA file with genome sequence (assembly). The file may be gzip-compressed. An index with the file extension .fai must exist only if CRAM files are processed.
blacklist                        Optional<File>           -b                    File containing blacklisted events (recurrent artifacts and transcripts observed in healthy tissue).
known_fusions                    Optional<tsv>            -k                    File containing known/recurrent fusions. Some cancer entities are often characterized by fusions between the same pair of genes. In order to boost sensitivity, a list of known fusions can be supplied using this parameter. The list must contain two columns with the names of the fused genes, separated by tabs.
output_filename                  Optional<Filename>       -o                    Output file with fusions that have passed all filters.
discarded_output_filename        Optional<Filename>       -O                    Output file with fusions that were discarded due to filtering.
structural_variants_coordinates  Optional<tsv>            -d                    Tab-separated file with coordinates of structural variants found using whole-genome sequencing data. These coordinates serve to increase sensitivity towards weakly expressed fusions and to eliminate fusions with low evidence.
max_genomic_breakpoint_distance  Optional<Integer>        -D                    When a file with genomic breakpoints obtained via whole-genome sequencing is supplied via the -d parameter, this parameter determines how far a genomic breakpoint may be away from a transcriptomic breakpoint to consider it as a related event. For events inside genes, the distance is added to the end of the gene; for intergenic events, the distance threshold is applied as is. Default: 100000
strandedness                     Optional<String>         -s                    Whether a strand-specific protocol was used for library preparation, and if so, the type of strandedness (auto/yes/no/reverse). When unstranded data is processed, the strand can sometimes be inferred from splice-patterns. But in unclear situations, stranded data helps resolve ambiguities. Default: auto
contigs                          Optional<Array<String>>  -i                    Comma-/space-separated list of interesting contigs. Fusions between genes on other contigs are ignored. Contigs can be specified with or without the prefix 'chr'. Default: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 X Y
filters                          Optional<Array<String>>  -f                    Comma-/space-separated list of filters to disable. By default all filters are enabled. Valid values: homopolymer, same_gene, inconsistently_clipped, duplicates, low_entropy, no_genomic_support, short_anchor, homologs, blacklist, pcr_fusions, isoforms, intronic, uninteresting_contigs, read_through, genomic_support, mismatches, no_coverage, spliced, mismappers, merge_adjacent, select_best, many_spliced, long_gap, min_support, relative_support, end_to_end, known_fusions, non_coding_neighbors, intragenic_exonic, hairpin, small_insert_size
max_e_value                      Optional<Float>          -E                    Arriba estimates the number of fusions with a given number of supporting reads which one would expect to see by random chance. If the expected number of fusions (e-value) is higher than this threshold, the fusion is discarded by the 'relative_support' filter. Note: Increasing this threshold can dramatically increase the number of false positives and may increase the runtime of resource-intensive steps. Fractional values are possible. Default: 0.300000
min_supporting_reads             Optional<Integer>        -S                    The 'min_support' filter discards all fusions with fewer than this many supporting reads (split reads and discordant mates combined). Default: 2
max_mismappers                   Optional<Float>          -m                    When more than this fraction of supporting reads turns out to be mismappers, the 'mismappers' filter discards the fusion. Default: 0.800000
max_homolog_identity             Optional<Float>          -L                    Genes with more than the given fraction of sequence identity are considered homologs and removed by the 'homologs' filter. Default: 0.300000
homopolymer_length               Optional<Integer>        -H                    The 'homopolymer' filter removes breakpoints adjacent to homopolymers of the given length or more. Default: 6
read_through_distance            Optional<Integer>        -R                    The 'read_through' filter removes read-through fusions where the breakpoints are less than the given distance away from each other. Default: 10000
min_anchor_length                Optional<Integer>        -A                    Alignment artifacts are often characterized by split reads coming from only one gene and no discordant mates. Moreover, the split reads only align to a short stretch in one of the genes. The 'short_anchor' filter removes these fusions. This parameter sets the threshold in bp for what the filter considers short. Default: 23
many_spliced_events              Optional<Integer>        -M                    The 'many_spliced' filter recovers fusions between genes that have at least this many spliced breakpoints. Default: 4
max_kmer_content                 Optional<Float>          -K                    The 'low_entropy' filter removes reads with repetitive 3-mers. If the 3-mers make up more than the given fraction of the sequence, then the read is discarded. Default: 0.600000
max_mismatch_pvalue              Optional<Float>          -V                    The 'mismatches' filter uses a binomial model to calculate a p-value for observing a given number of mismatches in a read. If the number of mismatches is too high, the read is discarded. Default: 0.010000
fragment_length                  Optional<Integer>        -F                    When paired-end data is given, the fragment length is estimated automatically and this parameter has no effect. But when single-end data is given, the mean fragment length should be specified to effectively filter fusions that arise from hairpin structures. Default: 200
max_reads                        Optional<Integer>        -U                    Subsample fusions with more than the given number of supporting reads. This improves performance without compromising sensitivity, as long as the threshold is high. Counting of supporting reads beyond the threshold is inaccurate, obviously. Default: 300
quantile                         Optional<Float>          -Q                    Highly expressed genes are prone to produce artifacts during library preparation. Genes with an expression above the given quantile are eligible for filtering by the 'pcr_fusions' filter. Default: 0.998000
exonic_fraction                  Optional<Float>          -e                    The breakpoints of false-positive predictions of intragenic events are often both in exons. True predictions are more likely to have at least one breakpoint in an intron, because introns are larger. If the fraction of exonic sequence between two breakpoints is smaller than the given fraction, the 'intragenic_exonic' filter discards the event. Default: 0.200000
fusion_transcript                Optional<Boolean>        -T                    When set, the column 'fusion_transcript' is populated with the sequence of the fused genes as assembled from the supporting reads. Specify the flag twice to also print the fusion transcripts to the file containing discarded fusions (-O). Default: off
peptide_sequence                 Optional<Boolean>        -P                    When set, the column 'peptide_sequence' is populated with the sequence of the fused proteins as assembled from the supporting reads. Specify the flag twice to also print the peptide sequence to the file containing discarded fusions (-O). Default: off
read_identifiers                 Optional<Boolean>        -I                    When set, the column 'read_identifiers' is populated with identifiers of the reads which support the fusion. The identifiers are separated by commas. Specify the flag twice to also print the read identifiers to the file containing discarded fusions (-O). Default: off
===============================  =======================  ========  ==========  ============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

Workflow Description Language
------------------------------

.. code-block:: text

   version development

   task Arriba {
     input {
       Int? runtime_cpu
       Int? runtime_memory
       Int? runtime_seconds
       Int? runtime_disks
       File aligned_inp
       File? inp_chimeric
       File? gtf_file
       File? gtf_features
       File? reference
       File? blacklist
       File? known_fusions
       String? output_filename
       String? discarded_output_filename
       File? structural_variants_coordinates
       Int? max_genomic_breakpoint_distance
       String? strandedness
       Array[String]? contigs
       Array[String]? filters
       Float? max_e_value
       Int? min_supporting_reads
       Float? max_mismappers
       Float? max_homolog_identity
       Int? homopolymer_length
       Int? read_through_distance
       Int? min_anchor_length
       Int? many_spliced_events
       Float? max_kmer_content
       Float? max_mismatch_pvalue
       Int? fragment_length
       Int? max_reads
       Float? quantile
       Float? exonic_fraction
       Boolean? fusion_transcript
       Boolean? peptide_sequence
       Boolean? read_identifiers
     }
     command <<<
       set -e
       arriba \
         -x '~{aligned_inp}' \
         ~{if defined(inp_chimeric) then ("-c '" + inp_chimeric + "'") else ""} \
         ~{if defined(gtf_file) then ("-g '" + gtf_file + "'") else ""} \
         ~{if defined(gtf_features) then ("-G '" + gtf_features + "'") else ""} \
         ~{if defined(reference) then ("-a '" + reference + "'") else ""} \
         ~{if defined(blacklist) then ("-b '" + blacklist + "'") else ""} \
         ~{if defined(known_fusions) then ("-k '" + known_fusions + "'") else ""} \
         -o '~{select_first([output_filename, "generated.tsv"])}' \
         -O '~{select_first([discarded_output_filename, "generated.discarded.tsv"])}' \
         ~{if defined(structural_variants_coordinates) then ("-d '" + structural_variants_coordinates + "'") else ""} \
         ~{if defined(max_genomic_breakpoint_distance) then ("-D " + max_genomic_breakpoint_distance) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(strandedness) then ("-s '" + strandedness + "'") else ""} \
         ~{if (defined(contigs) && length(select_first([contigs])) > 0) then "-i '" + sep("' '", select_first([contigs])) + "'" else ""} \
         ~{if (defined(filters) && length(select_first([filters])) > 0) then "-f '" + sep("' '", select_first([filters])) + "'" else ""} \
         ~{if defined(max_e_value) then ("-E " + max_e_value) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(min_supporting_reads) then ("-S " + min_supporting_reads) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(max_mismappers) then ("-m " + max_mismappers) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(max_homolog_identity) then ("-L " + max_homolog_identity) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(homopolymer_length) then ("-H " + homopolymer_length) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(read_through_distance) then ("-R " + read_through_distance) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(min_anchor_length) then ("-A " + min_anchor_length) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(many_spliced_events) then ("-M " + many_spliced_events) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(max_kmer_content) then ("-K " + max_kmer_content) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(max_mismatch_pvalue) then ("-V " + max_mismatch_pvalue) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(fragment_length) then ("-F " + fragment_length) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(max_reads) then ("-U " + max_reads) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(quantile) then ("-Q " + quantile) else ''} \
         ~{if defined(exonic_fraction) then ("-e " + exonic_fraction) else ''} \
         ~{if (defined(fusion_transcript) && select_first([fusion_transcript])) then "-T" else ""} \
         ~{if (defined(peptide_sequence) && select_first([peptide_sequence])) then "-P" else ""} \
         ~{if (defined(read_identifiers) && select_first([read_identifiers])) then "-I" else ""}
     >>>
     runtime {
       cpu: select_first([runtime_cpu, 1])
       disks: "local-disk ~{select_first([runtime_disks, 20])} SSD"
       docker: "quay.io/biocontainers/arriba:1.2.0--hd2e4403_2"
       duration: select_first([runtime_seconds, 86400])
       memory: "~{select_first([runtime_memory, 4])}G"
       preemptible: 2
     }
     output {
       File out = select_first([output_filename, "generated.tsv"])
       File out_discarded = select_first([discarded_output_filename, "generated.discarded.tsv"])
     }
   }

Common Workflow Language
-------------------------

.. code-block:: text

   #!/usr/bin/env cwl-runner
   class: CommandLineTool
   cwlVersion: v1.2
   label: Arriba
   doc: |2

     Arriba gene fusion detector
     --------------------------- 
     Version: 1.2.0 
     Arriba is a fast tool to search for aberrant transcripts such as gene fusions.  
     It is based on chimeric alignments found by the STAR RNA-Seq aligner. 

     Arriba is a command-line tool for the detection of gene fusions from RNA-Seq data. It was developed for the use in a 
     clinical research setting. Therefore, short runtimes and high sensitivity were important design criteria. It is based 
     on the ultrafast STAR aligner and the post-alignment runtime is typically just ~2 minutes. In contrast to many other 
     fusion detection tools which build on STAR, Arriba does not require to reduce the alignIntronMax parameter of STAR 
     to detect fusions arising from focal deletions.

     Apart from gene fusions, Arriba can detect other structural rearrangements with potential clinical relevance, such 
     as exon duplications or truncations of genes (i.e., breakpoints in introns and intergenic regions).

   requirements:
   - class: ShellCommandRequirement
   - class: InlineJavascriptRequirement
   - class: DockerRequirement
     dockerPull: quay.io/biocontainers/arriba:1.2.0--hd2e4403_2

   inputs:
   - id: aligned_inp
     label: aligned_inp
     doc: |-
       File in SAM/BAM/CRAM format with main alignments as generated by STAR (Aligned.out.sam). Arriba extracts candidate reads from this file. This is sometimes /dev/stdin
     type: File
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -x
       separate: true
   - id: inp_chimeric
     label: inp_chimeric
     doc: |-
       File in SAM/BAM/CRAM format with chimeric alignments as generated by STAR (Chimeric.out.sam). This parameter is only required, if STAR was run with the parameter '--chimOutType SeparateSAMold'. When STAR was run with the parameter '--chimOutType WithinBAM', it suffices to pass the parameter -x to Arriba and -c can be omitted. 
     type:
     - File
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -c
       separate: true
   - id: gtf_file
     label: gtf_file
     doc: GTF file with gene annotation. The file may be gzip-compressed.
     type:
     - File
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -g
       separate: true
   - id: gtf_features
     label: gtf_features
     doc: |-
       Comma-/space-separated list of names of GTF features. Default: gene_name=gene_name|gene_id gene_id=gene_id transcript_id=transcript_id feature_exon=exon feature_CDS=CDS 
     type:
     - File
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -G
       separate: true
   - id: reference
     label: reference
     doc: |-
       FastA file with genome sequence (assembly). The file may be gzip-compressed. An index with the file extension .fai must exist only if CRAM files are processed. 
     type:
     - File
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -a
       separate: true
   - id: blacklist
     label: blacklist
     doc: |-
       File containing blacklisted events (recurrent artifacts and transcripts observed in healthy tissue). 
     type:
     - File
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -b
       separate: true
   - id: known_fusions
     label: known_fusions
     doc: |-
       File containing known/recurrent fusions. Some cancer entities are often characterized by fusions between the same pair of genes. In order to boost sensitivity, a list of known fusions can be supplied using this parameter. The list must contain two columns with the names of the fused genes, separated by tabs. 
     type:
     - File
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -k
       separate: true
   - id: output_filename
     label: output_filename
     doc: Output file with fusions that have passed all filters.
     type:
     - string
     - 'null'
     default: generated.tsv
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -o
       separate: true
   - id: discarded_output_filename
     label: discarded_output_filename
     doc: Output file with fusions that were discarded due to filtering.
     type:
     - string
     - 'null'
     default: generated.discarded.tsv
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -O
       separate: true
   - id: structural_variants_coordinates
     label: structural_variants_coordinates
     doc: |-
       Tab-separated file with coordinates of structural variants found using whole-genome sequencing data. These coordinates serve to increase sensitivity towards weakly expressed fusions and to eliminate fusions with low evidence. 
     type:
     - File
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -d
       separate: true
   - id: max_genomic_breakpoint_distance
     label: max_genomic_breakpoint_distance
     doc: |-
       When a file with genomic breakpoints obtained via whole-genome sequencing is supplied via the -d parameter, this parameter determines how far a genomic breakpoint may be away from a transcriptomic breakpoint to consider it as a related event. For events inside genes, the distance is added to the end of the gene; for intergenic events, the distance threshold is applied as is. Default: 100000 
     type:
     - int
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -D
       separate: true
   - id: strandedness
     label: strandedness
     doc: |-
       Whether a strand-specific protocol was used for library preparation, and if so, the type of strandedness (auto/yes/no/reverse). When unstranded data is processed, the strand can sometimes be inferred from splice-patterns. But in unclear situations, stranded data helps resolve ambiguities. Default: auto 
     type:
     - string
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -s
       separate: true
   - id: contigs
     label: contigs
     doc: |-
       Comma-/space-separated list of interesting contigs. Fusions between genes on other contigs are ignored. Contigs can be specified with or without the prefix 'chr'. Default: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 X Y 
     type:
     - type: array
       items: string
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -i
   - id: filters
     label: filters
     doc: |-
       Comma-/space-separated list of filters to disable. By default all filters are enabled. Valid values: homopolymer, same_gene, inconsistently_clipped, duplicates, low_entropy, no_genomic_support, short_anchor, homologs, blacklist, pcr_fusions, isoforms, intronic, uninteresting_contigs, read_through, genomic_support, mismatches, no_coverage, spliced, mismappers, merge_adjacent, select_best, many_spliced, long_gap, min_support, relative_support, end_to_end, known_fusions, non_coding_neighbors, intragenic_exonic, hairpin, small_insert_size 
     type:
     - type: array
       items: string
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -f
       itemSeparator: ' '
   - id: max_e_value
     label: max_e_value
     doc: |-
       Arriba estimates the number of fusions with a given number of supporting reads which one would expect to see by random chance. If the expected number of fusions (e-value) is higher than this threshold, the fusion is discarded by the 'relative_support' filter. Note: Increasing this threshold can dramatically increase the number of false positives and may increase the runtime of resource-intensive steps. Fractional values are possible. Default: 0.300000 
     type:
     - float
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -E
       separate: true
   - id: min_supporting_reads
     label: min_supporting_reads
     doc: |-
       The 'min_support' filter discards all fusions with fewer than this many supporting reads (split reads and discordant mates combined). Default: 2 
     type:
     - int
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -S
       separate: true
   - id: max_mismappers
     label: max_mismappers
     doc: |-
       When more than this fraction of supporting reads turns out to be mismappers, the 'mismappers' filter discards the fusion. Default: 0.800000 
     type:
     - float
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -m
       separate: true
   - id: max_homolog_identity
     label: max_homolog_identity
     doc: |-
       Genes with more than the given fraction of sequence identity are considered homologs and removed by the 'homologs' filter. Default: 0.300000 
     type:
     - float
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -L
       separate: true
   - id: homopolymer_length
     label: homopolymer_length
     doc: |-
       The 'homopolymer' filter removes breakpoints adjacent to homopolymers of the given length or more. Default: 6 
     type:
     - int
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -H
       separate: true
   - id: read_through_distance
     label: read_through_distance
     doc: |-
       The 'read_through' filter removes read-through fusions where the breakpoints are less than the given distance away from each other. Default: 10000 
     type:
     - int
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -R
       separate: true
   - id: min_anchor_length
     label: min_anchor_length
     doc: |-
       Alignment artifacts are often characterized by split reads coming from only one gene and no discordant mates. Moreover, the split reads only align to a short stretch in one of the genes. The 'short_anchor' filter removes these fusions. This parameter sets the threshold in bp for what the filter considers short. Default: 23 
     type:
     - int
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -A
       separate: true
   - id: many_spliced_events
     label: many_spliced_events
     doc: |-
       The 'many_spliced' filter recovers fusions between genes that have at least this many spliced breakpoints. Default: 4 
     type:
     - int
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -M
       separate: true
   - id: max_kmer_content
     label: max_kmer_content
     doc: |-
       The 'low_entropy' filter removes reads with repetitive 3-mers. If the 3-mers make up more than the given fraction of the sequence, then the read is discarded. Default: 0.600000 
     type:
     - float
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -K
       separate: true
   - id: max_mismatch_pvalue
     label: max_mismatch_pvalue
     doc: |-
       The 'mismatches' filter uses a binomial model to calculate a p-value for observing a given number of mismatches in a read. If the number of mismatches is too high, the read is discarded. Default: 0.010000 
     type:
     - float
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -V
       separate: true
   - id: fragment_length
     label: fragment_length
     doc: |-
       When paired-end data is given, the fragment length is estimated automatically and this parameter has no effect. But when single-end data is given, the mean fragment length should be specified to effectively filter fusions that arise from hairpin structures. Default: 200 
     type:
     - int
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -F
       separate: true
   - id: max_reads
     label: max_reads
     doc: |-
       Subsample fusions with more than the given number of supporting reads. This improves performance without compromising sensitivity, as long as the threshold is high. Counting of supporting reads beyond the threshold is inaccurate, obviously. Default: 300 
     type:
     - int
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -U
       separate: true
   - id: quantile
     label: quantile
     doc: |-
       Highly expressed genes are prone to produce artifacts during library preparation. Genes with an expression above the given quantile are eligible for filtering by the 'pcr_fusions' filter. Default: 0.998000 
     type:
     - float
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -Q
       separate: true
   - id: exonic_fraction
     label: exonic_fraction
     doc: |-
       The breakpoints of false-positive predictions of intragenic events are often both in exons. True predictions are more likely to have at least one breakpoint in an intron, because introns are larger. If the fraction of exonic sequence between two breakpoints is smaller than the given fraction, the 'intragenic_exonic' filter discards the event. Default: 0.200000
     type:
     - float
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -e
       separate: true
   - id: fusion_transcript
     label: fusion_transcript
     doc: |-
       When set, the column 'fusion_transcript' is populated with the sequence of the fused genes as assembled from the supporting reads. Specify the flag twice to also print the fusion transcripts to the file containing discarded fusions (-O). Default: off 
     type:
     - boolean
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -T
       separate: true
   - id: peptide_sequence
     label: peptide_sequence
     doc: |-
       When set, the column 'peptide_sequence' is populated with the sequence of the fused proteins as assembled from the supporting reads. Specify the flag twice to also print the peptide sequence to the file containing discarded fusions (-O). Default: off 
     type:
     - boolean
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -P
       separate: true
   - id: read_identifiers
     label: read_identifiers
     doc: |-
       When set, the column 'read_identifiers' is populated with identifiers of the reads which support the fusion. The identifiers are separated by commas. Specify the flag twice to also print the read identifiers to the file containing discarded fusions (-O). Default: off 
     type:
     - boolean
     - 'null'
     inputBinding:
       prefix: -I
       separate: true

   outputs:
   - id: out
     label: out
     type: File
     outputBinding:
       glob: generated.tsv
       loadContents: false
   - id: out_discarded
     label: out_discarded
     type: File
     outputBinding:
       glob: generated.discarded.tsv
       loadContents: false
   stdout: _stdout
   stderr: _stderr

   baseCommand:
   - arriba
   arguments: []

   hints:
   - class: ToolTimeLimit
     timelimit: |-
       $([inputs.runtime_seconds, 86400].filter(function (inner) { return inner != null })[0])
   id: Arriba


